# Tuning Forks, Phasors

1. **Where to begin**

Sound can be captured, reproduced and preserved almost flawlessly, by storing it in bits: this is a monumental achievement. Film disintegrates in a few decades, and other media, vinyl, magnetic tape, etc, all degrade with use.

The technology for making sound digital transforms the computer into a flexible instrument for creating music: in theory, a computer can produce any possible audible sound, however this requires understanding the relationship between the workings of the computer and what we hear.

2. **Simplest vibrations**

One of the simplest ways to produce a sound with clear pitch, is to hit a tuning fork tine.

This is all due to physics: the tine is deformed when struck, and then is restored beyond its original shape in the opposite direction. This process continues until the oscillation stops, but while it's occurring, the pressure waves move through the air and reach our hears.

The balance between the two parts of this process, determines the frequency of the oscillation.

Suppose we measure the deformation (displacement), with the variable `x`, assuming that the restorative force, is proportional to the deforming force, in the opposite direction.

In this case, we have $F = -kx$, where $k$ is the proportionality constant, relating $F$ to the displacement.

We have to consider the 2^nd^, law of motion: the restoring force produces an acceleration proportional to that force, often described mathematically as $F = ma$.

Now we've already said that $F=-kx$, and now we're saying, $F = ma$, meaning that $F = ma = -kx$.

We want to learn how the tine vibrates, specifically, and can do so with the relationship between its position and acceleration.

Given that acceleration is just the second derivative of displacement





